{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.26100}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs28\lang9 Module -1: Understanding of Hardware and Its componenets:-\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx284\tx426\b\fs24 Section 1: Multiple Choice 7\fs22\par

\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1\tx284\tx426\b0 1.Which of the following is NOT a component of the CPU? \par
Ans:- RAM    \par
\par
2. What is the function of RAM in a computer? \par
Ans:- Temporary storage of data\par
\par
3.  Which of the following is a primary storage device?\par
Ans:- 4. 1 and both \par
\par
4. what is the purpose of GPU?\par
Ans:- that provide effective images , videos,pictures\par
\par
\b\fs24 Section 2: True or False:-\par
\par
\b0 5.The motherboard is the main circuit board of a computer \par
where other components are attached.\par
Ans:- YES\par
\par
6. A UPS (Uninterruptible Power Supply) is a hardware \par
device that provides emergency power to a load when the input power \par
source fails.\par
Ans:- TRUE\par
\par
7. An expansion card is a circuit board that enhances the \par
functionality of a component. \par
Ans:- TRUE\par
\par
\b Section 3: Short Answer:-\par
\par
\b0 8.\b  \b0 Explain the difference between HDD and SSD. \par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1440\sl276\slmult1\tx284\tx426\b\fs28 HDD\b0 :- \fs24\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\fs28 HDD stands for Hard Disk Drive.\fs24\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\fs28 HDD contains moving parts\fs24\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\fs28 The data accessing slower than SSD\fs24\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b\fs28 SSD\b0 :- \fs24\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\fs28 SSD stands for Solid State Drive.\fs24\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\fs28 SSD Doesn't contain moving parts\fs24\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\fs28 The data accessing speed higher than HDD\fs24\par

\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1\tx284\tx426\par
9. Describe the function of BIOS in a computer system. \par
Ans:-  BIOS is stand for "Basic input output  system".It\rquote s a program that a computer uses to start up and run.When you turn on your computer, BIOS  checks all  important parts of  computer like processor, memory, and storage.\par
\par

\pard\li710\sl276\slmult1\tx284\tx426 10. List and briefly explain three input devices commonly used with \par

\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1\tx284\tx426 computers. \par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1440\sl276\slmult1\tx284\tx426\fs28  \b 1. Keyboard\fs24 :- \b0 The keyboard is the most used input device to enter data into computer. The keyboard provide some special keys to perform special task. that contain 104 keys \b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Types of keys:- \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}numeric keys:- \b0 to enter numeric data\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}typing keys:- \b0 The letter keys (A-Z) and number keys (09) Ss\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Control Keys:-  \b0 End, Insert, Alternate(Alt), Delete, Control(Ctrl)\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Special Keys:- \b0 Enter, Shift, Caps Lock, NumLk\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Function Keys:- \b0 F1 to F12\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b\fs28 2. Mouse:- \b0\fs24 The mouse is used to move a cursor on the screen while clicking and dragging that includes two buttons left and right, with a wheel in the centre. we can move the cursor on screen using the mouse\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b\fs28 3. web-cam:- \b0\fs24 A webcam is a built-in camera on a computer. This input device capture photographs and record videos. \par

\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1\tx284\tx426\par
\b\fs28 Section 4: Practical Application:-\par
\b0\fs24\par
11. Identify and label the following components on a diagram of a \par
motherboard:-\par
Ans:- CPU (Central Processing Unit): Usually located near the center or top of the motherboard, often under a heat sink or fan.\par
\par
RAM Slots: these are long slots where memory modules (RAM) are inserted. They may be labeled with numbers (e.g., DIMM1, DIMM2).\par
\par
SATA Connectors: Usually positioned on the edge of the motherboard, these connectors are often oriented horizontally and may be grouped together. They are used for connecting storage devices like SSDs and HDDs.\par
\par
PCI-E Slot (Peripheral Component Interconnect Express): These slots are typically found toward the bottom of the motherboard. They are longer and are used for expansion cards like graphics cards and network cards.\par
\par
12. Demonstrate how to install a RAM module into a computer.\par
Ans:-\par
Step 1: Gather Your Tools\par
Step 2: Power Down and Unplug\par
Step 3: Open the Case\par
Step 4: Locate the RAM Slots\par
Step 5: Remove Existing RAM (if necessary)\par
Step 6: Install the New RAM\par
Step 7: Close the Case and Reconnect\par
Step 8: Power On and Verify\par
Step 9: Boot into Your Operating System\par
 \par
\b\fs28 Section 5:- Essay:-\b0\par
\fs24\par
13. Discuss the importance of proper cooling mechanisms in a computer \par
system. Include examples of cooling methods and their effectiveness:-\par

\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1\qj\tx284\tx426\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\tx284\tx426 Preventing Overheating: High temperatures can cause components like the CPU, GPU, and RAM to overheat, leading to thermal throttling or even hardware failure. Maintaining optimal temperatures ensures stable operation.\par
\par
Enhancing Performance: Many modern CPUs and GPUs can boost their performance when they are adequately cooled. If the cooling system is insufficient, these components may not reach their full potential due to thermal limits.\par
\par
Extending Lifespan: Consistent overheating can shorten the lifespan of electronic components. Proper cooling can mitigate this risk, leading to longer-lasting hardware.\par
\par
Reducing Noise: Effective cooling systems can reduce the need for loud fans working at high speeds, leading to a quieter computing experience\par
\par
Cooling Methods:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1\qj\tx284\tx426 Air Cooling:\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\tx284\tx426 Description: Utilizes fans and heatsinks to dissipate heat from components.\par
Effectiveness: Generally effective for standard usage and moderate gaming. High-quality air coolers can handle overclocked systems well. However, they can be limited in extreme performance scenarios.\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1\qj\tx284\tx426 Liquid Cooling:\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\qj\tx284\tx426 Description: Uses liquid coolant to absorb heat from components and transfers it to a radiator where it is cooled by fans.\par
Effectiveness: Highly efficient, especially for high-performance CPUs and GPUs. It can provide lower temperatures than air cooling and is often quieter. However, it requires more maintenance and is more complex to install.\par
\par
\par
14.Explain the concept of bus width and its significance in computer architecture:-\par
Ans:- A Bus width refers to the number of bits that can be transmitted simultaneously over a computer bus. A bus is a set of physical connections (cables, circuits, etc.) that can be shared by multiple hardware components to communicate with one another. Memory and input/ output devices are connected to the Central Processing Unit through a group of lines called a bus. These lines are designed to transfer data between different components.\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1\tx284\tx426 Types of Computer Bus\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Address bus \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Data bus\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Control bus\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\tx284\tx426\par
\b 1. Address Bus:- \par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1\tx284\tx426\b0 A collection of wires used to identify particular location in main memory is called Address Bus. Or in other words, the information used to describe the memory locations travels along the address bus.\par
{\pntext\f0 2.\tab}The address bus transports memory addresses which the processor wants to access in order to read or write data..\par
{\pntext\f0 3.\tab}The address bus is unidirectional.\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\tx284\tx426\b\par
2. Data Bus:-\b0\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1\tx284\tx426 A collection of wires through which data is transmitted from one part of a computer to another is called Data Bus.\par
{\pntext\f0 2.\tab}Data Bus can be thought of as a highway on which data travels within a computer.\par
{\pntext\f0 3.\tab}The main objective of data bus is transfer of the data between microprocessor to input/ output devices or memory.\par
{\pntext\f0 4.\tab}The data bus transfers instructions coming from or going to the processor.\par
{\pntext\f0 5.\tab}The data bus is bidirectional because the data can flow in either direction from CPU to memory(or input/output device) or from memory to the CPU.\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\tx284\tx426\par
\b 3. Control Bus:-\b0\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1\tx284\tx426 The connections that carry control information between the CPU and other devices within the computer is called Control Bus.\par
{\pntext\f0 2.\tab}The main objective of control bus is all signals controller carried from processor to other hardware device.\par
{\pntext\f0 3.\tab}The control bus transports orders and synchonisation signal coming from the control unit and travelling to all other hardware components\par
{\pntext\f0 4.\tab}The Control bus is bidirectional because the data can flow in either direction from CPU to memory(or input/output device) or from memory to the CPU.\par
{\pntext\f0 5.\tab}it also transmits response signals from the hardware.\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\tx284\tx426\fs22\par
}
 